okay good afternoon so my name is calm
I'm principal engineer on elastic load
balancing which is a service hopefully
every year everyone here is probably at
least a little bit familiar with so
actually joined it'll be about a year
ago I work today list quite a bit longer
than that but I joined he'll be about a
year ago spent the last year not just
working on lb but also meeting a lot of
our customers and figuring out how they
use the lb what we can do better for
them all those kinds of things and
pretty much everything that's in this
presentation comes from that comes from
best practices that I've learned from
customers how their how they're using
ELB the patterns they're applying and
how to building it into their businesses
us we're going to cover that and then
we're going to cover some some deep
dives into parts of the internal
architecture of ELB how we do some
specific security things how we manage
our availability things like that so
hopefully there'll be a lot to learn
from just a very very quick primer on
elastic load balancer so we you create
an elastic load balancer has listeners
they listen on a tcp/ip port pair and
they take traffic ordinarily will
terminate ssl as well for customers
that's pretty popular where will do will
do I manage the encryption and then you
register instances or auto scaling
groups behind the load balancer and we
direct traffic to it right so that's elb
at the very very high level but we're
going to get into it a lot more detail
than that I'm we're going to cover a
tree do it in three sections first is
going to be security so how ALB provides
a managed security for the applications
that are behind it and some of how we
implement our own security features the
second thing we're going to cover is
scalability right how elb helps
you scale for your numbers of requests
whether it's very small number is a very
large numbers whether it's low bandwidth
are very high bandwidth and finally
we're going to cover availability how
will be integrates into keeping keeping
your installation online all the time ok
so we'll start with security so I want
to emphasize that everything I'm going
to cover here in the Security section is
true independent of where they use
elastic load balancer as a loud bouncer
right so I'll get a giving an example I
run my own personal just toy instance
and website on ec2 I have a t2 that
micro because I don't I can't justify
spending any more money than that on my
own toey project I was just got some
very old blogs and things that I just
want to keep online but it's not
availability critical or anything like
that but just from my own can a peace of
mind the ease of use I actually run that
even though it's one instance behind an
elastic load balancer and there's now
partly that's because i work on elb and
i want to be able to use in a day-to-day
basis and stay very familiar with how it
works but it's also partially because
it's doing things for me like ssl that I
no longer have to worry about on the
back end and helps protect me from from
various threats so one best practice
when it comes to security stuff is is to
think about your trap model right water
what are the things we're defending
against and there's some specific things
that having that elb helps us with here
the the tree of highlighted are
defending against weaknesses and
cryptographic protocols so we'll go into
that software vulnerabilities so just
vulnerability in the software that you
might be running behind the knee lb
explain a little little bit how we help
with that and and things like account
disclosure such as simple things like
passwords and so on get lost right and I
might it might seem
strange and unfamiliar that he can help
with those things but what I find out
from talking to customers is that it's
actually a really really common a common
reason why people are using a lb
surprise me so I thought it was worth
going into here so the first of those is
probably our most popular feature and
and thing that we've seen the most
activity on over the last 18 months in
particular which is SSL and defending
and scripted graphic vulnerabilities so
the last 18 months have seen a lot of
new research and progress in the
analysis of encryption modes and
security properties various protocols
which is great that's a really positive
development the people are really
scrutinizing these things and finding
every weakness that's there so they can
be improved but it also means we've had
to turn around and respond very quickly
to each of those as they're found so by
terminating ssl on the EOB we manage all
that right so some examples of things
that we've done there is when the poodle
vulnerability came out which essentially
said that sslv3 is no longer secure so
that came out of november last year the
the very same day the paper was released
and made public we had a new lb security
policy to disable sslv3 and that was our
new default we created a new elb that
day it would no longer have sslv3 I mean
also encouraged all of our customers to
take their existing lbs and migrate from
them to that policy it's very easy to do
you can do it in the console very
quickly or with our API we saw a very
quick adoption with that in when a day
or two sixty-two percent of REO bees who
converted to that new security policy
within a month it was in the high 90s so
we saw great adoption there we also saw
earlier this year the the log jam
vulnerability was disclosed which was
just improvements in how diffie-hellman
encryption can be attacked and
and it was disclosed that you know
certain key sizes and sewn on wanelo
were no longer secure and so we took it
took a very close look at that again the
same day it was released we actually had
new security policies available they're
just completely disabled diffie-hellman
encryption on your e lbs that's okay
diffie-hellman encryption plays a role
in mus court called perfect forward
secrecy I'll talk about that in a few
slides but there's actually a much more
modern alternative available based on
elliptic curves and so we felt that the
most pragmatic thing to do was just turn
off turn off diffie-hellman we released
that policy that same day and again we
saw a lot of people upgrading very
quickly when when the harp lead software
vulnerability was disclosed against
openssl again on the same day we had
upgraded every ELB without downtime
which is a pretty neat and it not quite
a clear you know day on which the rc4
encryption algorithm was just simply
declared insecure it's more a thing that
kind of gradually became consensus over
a period of months and years we had we
have removed the rc4 encryption
algorithm from our default security
policies quite quite far in advance of
the coming out of things like the
ratings tools that give you an SSL
rating or various compliance programs
and so on so we're doing so we're
keeping up-to-date with these policies
essentially so you don't have to write
so when one of these things come out
switch your policy to the latest thing
and you should be you should be in a
pretty good position one of the reasons
we're able to do this and respond so
quickly to these things is we've
actually been working and released over
the summer our own implementation of SSL
and TLS so it's called s twin which is
short for signal to noise it's on github
and go look at the code you can see how
the project's doing it's written in
about five times five thousand lines of
car
world which compares to about 150,000
lines of code to do the same
functionality in openssl so we feel it's
it's it's probably in a much better
position against security
vulnerabilities and so on we're not
using this yet in ALB we're going to
take a very conservative approach to
migrating the service over to it we're
going to a lot of extensive security
reviews we're working with a lot of
people in the community to analyze it as
closely as possible but would be made
will be migrating a SS is including lb
to it but in the meantime it also means
we have a deep expertise in SSL and TLS
we know it at the implementation level
I'm involved in the community you know
we attend things like the SSL
standardization meetings and so on and
so when these papers come out we're
pretty well positioned to make judgments
around what to do I'll explain our
thinking process there a little right so
if you go to our console if you go to
our API you'll see that we support these
security policies and we also have
custom policies so security policies are
just a pre-baked set of policies here's
the ciphers we support our default is
always a set that we think is balances
trade-offs between security and
compatibility and a custom one you can
you can pick and choose whatever you
like you can literally go through all of
the various protocols that we support
and decide which ones you want and don't
want and so as I said we're trying to
manage balance trade-offs between
security and compatibility right if we
literally boiled everything down to just
the absolutely most secure you know most
cpu intensive encryption algorithm very
very few clients would work with that
right and and your sites and
installations just wouldn't work so that
wouldn't be acceptable and then on the
other hand if we just included
everything obviously there would be
insecure protocols and mouths in there
so what we do is we take the set that's
available which is quite a lot and we
first pare it down to encryption
algorithms that's our secure at all
so today we're in our default policies
we support AES and three days encryption
and then we always always always prefer
perfect forward secrecy so what that
means is if that's an encryption mode
where even if your certificate was
somehow compromised even if the private
key leaked you know even if somebody
lost it it was on a USB drive somewhere
or something somebody who got that key
wouldn't be able to go back and decrypt
any of your traffic that they had
previously collected right so it's a
really really good mode to operate in so
we always always prefer that and we see
you know today thanks to browsers which
all have adopted this now we see if your
if your clients are generally browsers
you know way into the 90s percent of
traffic now uses perfect forward secrecy
which is great after that we always
prefer AES the encryption at the aes
encryption algorithm over three days
which is the other one we support on a
default some of our policies still
include or c4 not our default policy we
wouldn't recommend using those policies
and next you need them for extreme
backwards compatibility reasons but even
in those cases we D prioritize orosi for
all the way down and then there's things
called authentication modes which are
just around making sure the traffic
can't be forged or tampered with on the
on the wire and there's several
different modes in these protocols we
use GCM which is a galois counter mode
that's a preferred mode that's the the
most modern most secure mode over cbc
and age mac so we always prefer those
and then when we do is we take those
sets ever proposed okay here's what we
think we should do right and we simulate
what would happen with that set of
cipher Suites against literally billions
of connections from real world clients
that are hitting sites like amazon com
right so we are we have systems and
measurement processes set up where we
can take a look and we can say okay we
want to take this size
her out is that going to be safe are we
going to drop so much traffic that it's
going to cause and availability issues
or is pretty much everything out there
it already has the more modern things
and it's going to be fine right so
that's a process some legacy clients can
like cause trickiness there thankfully
we don't see this a lot right if your if
your clients are mostly phones right or
browsers everything's really up to date
right we see a lot you know great
software update uptake rate with those
but if your if your clients are you know
embedded systems firmwares on
televisions things that were you know
shipped six years ago and nobody thought
to include an auto update mechanism then
it may still only support you know sslv3
and so on so in those cases you can take
a really close look and you can say well
the traffic i'm sending you know there's
no credit card data there's no password
data it's probably okay to still use
those protocols in those cases you can
you can run on an old security policy if
you really really choose to always
recommend our most recent which is 2015
dash 0 5 so I want to talk a little bit
about how you can go about making that
analysis if you are in one of those kind
of corner cases so it's a long-standing
feature ELB has which is access logs
right great feature it always recommend
turning it on we'll we'll talk a little
more about in detail later but
essentially we log every request that we
see and with a bunch of parameters that
we record for each one and we'll upload
it to s3 periodically right it's we have
partner integration so you can take from
s3 and feed it into our various partners
and they can provide you with nice ways
to analyze that data and various gooeys
and analytics and so on which is really
really cool but two weeks ago we
released two new fields that we we now
record
in the access logs which is we actually
record this the ssl cipher suite that
was negotiated by the client for this
request and the protocol version right
so if in future you you're having to sit
down and think you know I need to
disable say TLS one point out right
because maybe the next pci certification
requires me to well i want to i want to
make an informed decision about what
impact that's going to have on my user
base right am I going to drop an
unacceptable percentage of my clients
and so you can now do that with the logs
right you can you can look at the we
always prioritize things so that the
leaf security protocols come last right
that's that's what their prioritization
process achieves so you can look the
logs and you can say well how many
clients are still using TLS 1.2 even
though it's even though it's very last
in the list right so you know if you
turned it off they wouldn't be able to
connect anymore and you can do a you
know request by request analysis you can
look at the user agents and you can say
that's these clients I need to get them
to upgrade or that's this customer of
mine I need to talk to them and so you
can gauge the impact before it happens
which is pretty neat so I actually did
this exercise with a customer a few
months ago where we were we were turning
our fastest lv3 and we were worried we
were because they're our first kind of
pastor and I even Alice's showed that
almost a percent 0.8 percent of traffic
was still coming in over sslv3 and for
them 0.8 percent of traffic is a lot
they didn't didn't want to just lose it
and so we went through the logs there
they turned on access logs we went
through those access loves with them one
by one and we found that actually the
clients were web scrapers was nuisance
robot traffic that had been just running
on bots and so on for years and no one
was keeping them up to date and we were
there actually pleased to block them
they were became enthusiastic it's like
no no let's turn off sslv3 now we know
we were always trying to find creative
ways to keep the web scrapers away
so that was that was pretty interesting
so access logs also form a part of how
people are applying ELB as a form of
network compartmentalization and so
witty lb you can you can spin up e lbs
in V pcs vbc is a virtual private cloud
where you can have your own data center
in the cloud and you can spin up
publicly Obie's that have public IP
addresses that take internet traffic
right those are your front and dl bees
and we support private ones to where
they have internal IP addresses and we
can bounce traffic from either of those
two instances and so on but what we're
seeing is people setting up bo bees or
their policies such that you know the
public subnet can only be e lbs right so
that it's all front-end traffic
everything that comes in from the
Internet has to at least go through a
knee lb and the effect of that is that
they have a certain form of governance
or our firewalling on the traffic so l
bees are inbound only right inbound will
take traffic from the internet we'll
pass it on to the instances but there's
there's no way to go the other way so if
all you can provision in your public
subnet of ZL bees that gives you a layer
to layer of defense against things like
data exfiltration or or just somebody
spinning up in incidents in the public
subnet and now it has full internet
access and so on but then they can also
be set up with access logs enabled on
various other kinds of logging enabled
to really scrutinize the traffic as it
comes in it's a few things that it can
do right so the first is just regular
VPC security group integration so you
can set up security group rules on the
eol bees different ndl bees to say
here's where i want traffic to be
permitted from we this can all be locked
down using our identity and access
management
systems with roll accounts such that you
know you can blast or or provide a
policy that says this particular role
account and only this particular role
account can access the elb API can
create a lbs in the public subnet
nothing else can create public IPS in
the public subnet so therefore only the
people with that role account which
might be people in the security
department or somebody with a privilege
level of access can can give that front
end access can do things like load the
ssl certificate right so and they don't
need to use a password right they can
set it up with tokens and so on because
it's more security sensitive operation
and so the effect of that straight away
is that now anything that's happening in
your private sub Nancy it's a little
easier to be more liberal about what
people can spin up instances there and
get get their work done without having
to risk you know exposing some new
public endpoint there's some new ssl
certificate and so on if the account
where to be compromised in some way this
is very privileged account somehow if it
was using a password and password was
simply lost and so on we do support
cloud try logging so every action and
you'll be creating anyway you'll be and
so on it shows up in the cloud trail log
so you can be you can see what's going
on we have lbs own access logging which
we just covered and and if you're really
super interested you can also enable vb
z flour logging and see literally every
packet that comes into the elb i'm like
why it might be getting dropped if a
security group is dropping and so on and
so the effect of all that right is that
we're protecting against cryptographic
weaknesses using the mechanisms and
policies the software vulnerabilities
one is a little more interesting so
because it because everything is going
through the elb and being access loved
it and then being uploaded by us
2 2 s 3 if there is a software
vulnerability in the code on your
instance right so you know I'm just
running my blog on my instance and I'm
not always keeping my blog software up
to date because I just forgot to and
occasionally there's some vulnerability
in there where you know they can the
attacker can post a URL and they get
database access or system access and so
on and they get onto my box and the
first thing they'll do is delete the
logs that are on my box right they want
to cover their own cover their own
tracks well because the elb logged it
separately now we have a record actually
here's where the attacker came in here's
the request they made here's what their
IP address was and so on so makes it
easier to defend things against and the
campus tour sure we cover by iams it's
pretty straightforward so that's that
security and I want to move on to
scalability so fundamentally what I
think of scalability what I think it's
about is is speed right it's about
maintaining an acceptable level of
latency or smoothness of operation or
consistency of operation towards end
users as the load increases and so in
systems theory and in kind of the
academic ways of modeling large systems
we generally model load and systems and
servers and all those things using
queueing theory right using queues and
probably the most fundamental kind of
foundational theorem of queueing theory
is littles law that's Li TT le I'm from
ireland's and my T's don't come out all
the time but I'm what that says
essentially is that in a long-running
system or a system that's saturated
there's various technicalities the
overall a number of
operations in the system or people in
the system where we will call we would
call load or capacity is just equal to
the rate of arrival times the average
wait time right and we can flip those
terms around because we're more
interested in the wait time that's what
we're trying to optimize I put it in
simpler terms all it's really saying is
that if your system can be modeled like
a queue which these systems can be it
we're saying that latency is is
proportionate to the total load that
you're receiving / the troop what you
can do right so the more throughput you
can do the lower your Layton sees right
really straightforward really obvious
when when when put like that and but not
only our you know systems and servers
and instances model able as cues and elb
is it sows model model able as a queue
and you could break down a system
further and you could say inside a
system that's several queues because
each CPU has its own cue and it's this
very complicated recursive pattern but
it still ultimately boils down to the
faster your systems were responding the
more users they can do per second the
lower your Layton sees will be the more
consistent they will be really really
straightforward but we're going to see
how we exploit that law in lo banh seem
to kind of smooth over common issues so
there's three common patterns that kind
of fight us here that make latency
harder than it should be right really
really common in a lot of systems the
first one I want to highlight is garbage
collection right so this is a graph of a
typical memory usage on a system let's
say a JVM or a ruby process or even a
PHP process where it'll allocate memory
and it'll use more and more memory over
time
all these objects are being allocated as
by the code as it's executing and it's
running whatever service or website it
is you're providing and at some point it
reaches some magic limit and the system
kicks in and decides to perform garbage
collection and free up some of that
memory right and will typically see a
pause and performance at that point
right we've seen systems with heaps and
garbage collection parameters set so
large that you know literally the memory
can just a crew for gigs and gigs for
days and days and days and then finally
garbage collection kicks in and there
the system pause is literally four
minutes right not not even milliseconds
but we really hard pauses so the system
can be very very very interest to the
garbage collection pretty much all
modern programming languages the code we
use is written in our garbage collected
it's very convenient pattern for
developers I mean I love to use it it's
it's something a lot of research goes
into to tune garbage collection but we
still see this property a lot right so
this is fighting us write occasionally
systems will just pause and that
obviously has an impact of latency the
second thing we see is caching right so
caching is pretty pervasive in in modern
systems architectures right we even have
our own cashing services that we provide
and people use my caches are a great way
to speed up most technical problems
right there great great things but they
also lead to this variance in
performance where you know everything's
a cache hit cache hit cache hit cache
hit and then all of a sudden you get a
cache miss because finally your cache
entry expires and your latency goes
through the roof because now you're
going to go do the work to generate that
entry that was cached right maybe you
got a query a database or figure out
some somewhere cloud or access disk when
ordinarily wouldn't and so this is a
very similar looking graph to the
previous one right you just have these
long periods of everything being
relatively ok and low latency and then
all of a sudden you've got a big spike
and
hurt and then the third thing is just
kind of the natural distribution of
workload and response time in any given
system so in general pretty much any
system I've measured it follows an
exponential distribution where the most
requests are small right vast majority
requests take small number of
milliseconds but there's there are mixed
in there a long tail of larger workloads
and all that's really going on is you
know you've got a bunch of small
requests things like get / which just
retrieves the homepage might just be a
static page or a very simple front page
where all the objects are cached it's
access so frequently that everything's
hot and it's uh it's it's pretty quick
and responsive but then you might have
another URL on the same system where you
know here we're getting the monthly
report right maybe the monthly report
needs to go query you know several
million rows in a database somewhere and
do some kind of pivot joint on it and a
lot of memory allocation and figure out
what the report should look like for the
month and someone only calls it once a
month so it's not worth optimizing all
right it's not weird fixing it so that
it's much much faster but it ends up
mixed in there right and so we got this
property where you know a server the
reason we can model it as a queue is
because really in in raw physics terms
it can only do one thing at a time right
ultimately there's a CPU down there
that's doing some work can only do one
thing at a time and there's a scheduler
and cue managers and so on that are
figuring out what it's a lab deal at any
given time and so queues build up right
in the case of a server you've got a
scheduling q you've also got an accept
backlog of requests that are pending and
so on and things just have to wait on
each other right so you can sometimes
end up with small requests having to
wait on big request to finish and so
when you do the math and you take this
distribution which we looked at which is
just a plot of you know request size
versus how come and they are
by slow versus how come and I are you do
the math and you turn that into a
probability distribution of like what's
the average wait time for a request it
ends up looking like this right it's
just kind of a pretty gentle curve and
and says most requests don't have to
wait too long right they're probably
small there's probably only some other
small requests in front of them but
occasionally there'll be a big request
in front of me and I got it and I gotta
wait so if you just had one server one
big server that's what your load plot
would look like right and you'll see you
know you'll see reasonable average
response times they'll probably be
reasonably reasonably close to the fast
response times but your higher percent
our response times so say your 99th
percentile will probably be quite high
right so if you've got just one server
one paying managing a request to it and
your average request time is say 10
milliseconds your penis your p99 is
probably over 100 maybe even over a
second wouldn't be unusual for this kind
of plot ah so the first thing we can do
right with loud bouncing to fix this
well increase capacity but we want to
scale horizontally because we can't just
build infinitely bigger and bigger boxes
so we we split the request across
multiple house right and so here I these
it's it's kind of a weighted round-robin
style low bouncing there's not nothing
smart going on order then we're saying
okay we've got four instances I'm gonna
take a request and it's got a one in
four chance of going to any particular
server and we just kind of allocated
there more or less at random okay I like
to think about this like a supermarket
checkout right because you've got
multiple checkouts and you pick one and
you know well if you go to my
supermarket odds are there's someone
with really big loud in front of you all
the time and he's just gonna have to
wait on them to finish but even if you
just do that right even if all you do is
increase the number of instances and
split things at random it improves
things dramatically so I curve i showed
you that's that's the
the dotted orange one becomes the green
one right everything pulls in a little
which means your average goes down your
average response time gets much better
but more importantly your p99 those that
higher percentile of response times gets
dramatically better quickly and all
we've done here is is done some simple
weighted round-robin low bouncing so
this is actually the mode we operate in
if you're using elb is a tcp low bouncer
so if you if you terminate tcp on us tcp
directly on us you can enable SSL if you
want that still works what's do still
manage the SSL for you we will act as a
weighted round-robin low bouncer towards
the back ends and this is the kind of
improvement that you'll see right it's
pretty good and pretty dramatic but we
can do better again right so if we try
to line things up so that instead of
like the checkout queue it's more like
the queue at a bank right where
everybody lines up in one line and then
takes the next server available that's a
more optimal strategy now key to success
here right is that the thing doing the
dispatching which in our case is elb is
not itself the bottleneck right if it
was the ball neck this wouldn't work so
it has to be faster at processing things
then the instances are now that's true
in our case because you know you'll be
when we take a request and we go to
direct and figure out where it should be
we're not you know we're making a very
simple decision around here's where it
should go next we can do that quite
quickly we're not having to actually
generate a page right we're not having
to actually you know query data access
disks do all the complex work that goes
into rendering a page or an API response
and so on it's pretty easy to see why
routing requests can be much much faster
than actually handling requests which is
which is why this works at all and what
that does it improves things more
dramatically again right so the blue
line here is
what it looks like what what we call
least connections load-balancing that's
just an industry standard term so what
what the load balancer does is it looks
at all of the instances and says okay
well which instance has the least
outstanding requests against it at the
moment so we're counting requests to
each back-end right to each instance and
you know if three of them have ten and
one of them have eight one of them has
eight the next request will go to the
one that has eight right so we're
looking at the we're looking at the
server that is the least loaded and that
pulls everything into being this kind of
hockey stick and so this has an even
more dramatic effect on p99 s it will it
will typically bring the p90 down p99
down much much closer to the average
because when you do get occasional
outliers like that monthly report and so
on it'll pretty much go to one server
and it might have that server for a
while well that report is being
generated but it doesn't really impact
the other requests because now the lower
bounds are smart enough to know i'm not
gonna send anything to that to that guy
he's too busy right which is a which is
pretty good so this smooths out and make
things makes a lot of things much much
better right it'll it'll kind of paper
over garbage collection little paper
over cache misses a little paper over
just differences in your workload it's
great like that but just have one big
dangerous property right which is if you
have a back-end or an instance that is
not handling traffic correctly so let's
say it's returning five hundreds all the
time doing something harmful but it's
doing it very very quickly right we're
gonna send all the requests there right
that's that's not a that's not a good
thing right it's gonna it's going to
attract it's going to gravitate all
those requests to it almost the very
worst place for them so that's why it's
key as we'll see later to configure hell
checks correctly so we actually know the
healthiness of that instance
and would avoid sending it request even
though it's the fastest and the lease
loaded right so that's really important
takeaway none of this works as I said if
he lb is itself the bottleneck right if
the requests we're getting choked up on
elb itself this would fall apart so we
we ourselves have to scale right we'll
talk a little bit about how we do that
so two different ways that we scale our
low bouncers today both pre-emptive and
reactive so a pre-emptive love bouncing
is that if you register some instances
behind your low bouncer either directly
or true auto scaling groups will assume
you're adding those instances for a
reason right we'll assume you're adding
those instances because you're expecting
a workload you're going to be going to
do something with them and we'll go
ahead and preemptively scale the elb to
march right so we'll make the elb at
least as large more likely twice as
large as whatever you've scale to
because of our availability zone
configurations and we'll do that very
quickly generally within two minutes and
we'll keep it like that for at least 24
hours so even if even if you don't send
us any load even if nothing happens
we'll leave it that high for at least
the next 24 hours after 24 hours we'll
kind of slowly ramp down and go back to
our predictive model or reactive model
and the way the reactive model works is
you actually look at the load that's
coming in to the load balancer like how
many requests you're getting how many
packets per second you're getting how
many bytes per second all of these
things in and out various parameters if
you're using SSL we'll look at how much
CPU is being consumed by all the various
SSL parameters and so on and we'll will
scale the elb to to to match that we've
got pretty healthy safety margins on top
of that we actually scale every elb so
that we could lose an entire
availability zones worth of capacity at
a moment's notice and still be fully
scaled to respond to your load so
there's quite a bit of a safety margin
in there and this is something we've
done a lot of work on just improving
steadily and steadily over the last two
years to the point now where the system
scales so rapidly that we've seen people
handling the large super bowl style
events and you know everybody hitting us
at once advertisement links and so on
without needing to do anything special
the system will just scale to match it
it's it's it's pretty neat to see you
can also use ELB to help scale your own
instances right we we provide 13 try
blocks matrix with every elastic load
balancer i'll talk about them in a while
but all of those can be used to trigger
auto scaling as well so if if your load
can be scaled on a parameter that
corresponds to one of those metrics so
really common one is just requests right
or bytes rather than having to build on
metric yourself or do any kind of
aggregation you just use the metric that
comes from elb you can say well scale my
auto auto scaling group based on what
the elb in front of it is seeing which
is which is pretty neat it's a it is
important to choose the right metrics
right you need insight into your own
workload if you if you're very data
heavy right then maybe bytes per second
is more appropriate than requests per
second on the other hand if you very CPU
intensive and you've got a lot of work
per request but they're not necessarily
large then requested a way to go and you
got to make that decision based on your
own workload and what you think works
best in your environment the as you
mentioned is 13 cloud web metrics
there's things like I just mentioned
like requests and bites there's also
ones around the health of the load
balancer itself how we're doing in terms
of response times and so on everything's
provided a one-minute granularity
so they're pretty live pretty up today
help respond to things in real time I
think configure alarms on everything if
you like to someone that's particularly
interesting is the healthy host count
metric so that actually exposes our view
of your instance help right so you got
instances behind the load balancer hope
you've got health checks configured
we're help checking them all the time
this metric tells you okay well we're
currently seeing seven of your your
instances healthy out of tan say and you
can look at that on a zonal basis you
can look at that on a you can look you
can look at the IRA get to across the
load balancer it's pretty neat if you
want to see how the performance of your
sites doing you can look at our latency
metrics so here we measure a bunch of
different time values we measure the
time requests come into the elb and then
we send it to the instance with the
request the time that the the instance
take to respond and so on we provide you
with the min and Max and average and so
on of all those numbers and you can get
a sense for the overall responsiveness
of your site site at the moment and see
how that's going if you want really
super granular detail into individual
requests that's where access logs will
come in cover that a bit we also expose
search q and spillover metrics so the
search q is just an internal Q a buffer
of requests that the elb will hold on to
when your instances are refusing them
right so let's say you've got some
instances in the low bouncer we send
them some requests but then they run out
of their own capacity having quite auto
scale yet so we don't have another
instance we can send send traffic to
will actually just buffer up to a
thousand of them just hold on to them
for for a short while and then if an
instance does become available again
will replay them
and we'll we'll send them there and we
can recover spillover is when we can't
even do that right when your instances
are overwhelmed they're not keeping up
with the request r/a we've nowhere left
to send traffic the search q fills then
we spill over which essentially means we
start returning 50 trees on your behalf
that's our last resort hopefully at that
point your client might be able to do
something smart like maybe try an
alternative site or do exponential
back-off in case the client is
constantly trying and overloading the
site or something like that but both of
these metrics they're really useful to
look at they're generally assigned that
your instances are under scaled and you
don't need to put them on larger
instance types or auto scale to just
more of them they're super useful to
have great thing to configure alarms on
so access logs all right here's the
secret key to all of these fields you'll
find this in our documentation to but on
a per request level we're exposing
pretty much everything that's in one of
those 13 metrics and then cipher suite
and SSL protocol version which we which
we just added and you can do some really
neat stuff with these right something I
like to do with these is I will I'll
sometimes just write simple scripts that
go through the access logs and I'll find
you know what are the slowest requests
like I'll just order them very simple
awk shell script and say well here's my
you know top 10 bottom 10 depending on
which way you want to view it worse
requests what are they right now I'll
dig in and I'll go why is this request
so slow and it's a great way to uncover
little problems and systems a great way
to view the data another thing you use
before you could replay requests right
if you if you're trying to validate a
new stack or a new architecture you've
got this great repository of you know
requests real people generated that you
can try against the new stack and
see how that goes as I mentioned earlier
we upload these two s3 either once every
five minutes or once an hour whichever
you prefer you can you can choose either
way if you're worried about Ashley
storage costs you can also use a tree
data life cycle policies and so on so
they only keep however much data you're
comfortable with you know a day or two
days or a year whatever whatever it is
you he feels the right choice for you
from my own instance I've kept every log
ever that's a pretty small number of
requests so fine with that if you need
to scale beyond even a single region
that is something we support so yell be
has integration with Amazon route 53 a
dns service where if either for very
availability critical operations or a
very latency sensitive operations you
can use route 50 trees latency based
routing or now geographic based routing
to take you know different parts of the
world and send requests to different
regions and have al bees bees in those
regions handle them right it's pretty
neat all right so none of these matters
right if we don't actually keep the
website up if we don't if you don't keep
it up keep things going with you three
plays are pretty important role there as
we'll see but the first kind of big
availability van benefit sorry that I
wanted to point out which is something
that is so obvious it never occurred to
me until I started talking to customers
about it is that having a low balance or
in front of your instance means you can
do upgrades and replacements without
downtime right so really surprised me
the number of customers I spoke to just
totally all the one of the biggest
reasons they use in ALB so that you know
it used to be they would
their software or they would replace the
stock they have to schedule it at two in
the morning and you know there'd be a
10-minute interruption as one server
went away and lurk aim back and they
made some dns changes and all those
things and so on how we handle things a
little different when you d register an
EOB or sorry when you d register an
instance from a knee lb or when the
health checks on that instance start
failing we won't send any new traffic to
it but the old stuff stays going right
if there any connections in flight to
that instance will keep them alive so
you can just register a new instance
it'll start getting traffic pretty much
straight away you can watch traffic
drain on the old instance and when it's
done it's done right no downtime pretty
great way to keep availability this all
works partially because of hell checks
right so how checks probably the most
important part of getting the
availability configuration correct
behind an EOB right so when you when you
add instances the lb you can define a
haltech they can be as simple as can we
connect to a TCP port or as complex as
nope this is a full HTTPS request has to
get a 200 response to be considered
healthy right and again these are
something you've got to be diligent
about I'm smart about in terms of it
matching your workload and what's
appropriate for your site right so for
example if your application depends on
say a database right then maybe your
he'll check should check if the database
is a lot right and shouldn't be
returning 200 if the database is having
a problem because maybe it's better to
fail the hell check and have the logo
elsewhere to a different instance that's
using a different database and
everything can be everything can be
better the the thing I like about how
checks too is that they're they're kind
of always happening all the time in the
data plane right so they're incredibly
reliable with
really really really really reliable way
of making sure that there's a problem it
won't spread another thing that's worth
paying close attention to is their idle
time outs so we let you configure the
idle timeout default 60 seconds you can
set it raise it up to an hour and that's
how long we will keep a connection alive
even if there is no traffic on that
connection so this is useful if you're
using keep-alive connections so if the
if an instance response to us with a
connection keep-alive Heather says you
know it's safe to reuse this connection
which helps with latency this avoids all
those setup costs especially using SSL
takes four round trips to establish a
connection to the back end so there's a
time saver but you got to be careful
with this value because idle time it's
also kick in if you know if your system
just pauses or crashes and it's just in
a hang state you want you want to kill
any connections that are genuinely idol
right that there's really a problem with
so you want this value to match whatever
is appropriate for your site you also
want to think about like what's going to
happen when clients retry right so if
you've got one idle timeout in your
system the thing you know keep
connections open for an hour but your
client has an idle timeout that's set up
for like well just 60 seconds what's
going to happen is the clients going to
abandon it at 60 seconds but because
that's setting on the inside is still an
hour you know we might keep that work
darling even though there's no client
around to listen for it anymore excuse
me so it always recommend setting up
staggered idle time else they get
smaller and smaller the further you are
from the client right to avoid that I've
effect avoids cascading failures which
is which is pretty cool the other kind
of leg of availability is using multiple
availability zones so on elb we will
always always provision
these multiple availability zones even
if you're only using one yourself or
your own instances so when you create an
e i'll be in a VPC you give us a subnet
in each availability zone and that's
where we actually launched the elb we
have route 53 sitting in front of our
availability zones using DNS health
checks as a protection mechanism so if
an availability zone where they have say
a power outage and so on what's actually
happening is that the rule 53 health
checks will kick in detect that and take
it out of service without us having to
do anything right so when availabilities
arm fails we're not going and making any
changes or doing anything complicated at
all the DNS system is just saying stop
returning stop returning those IP
addresses please which is great that's
another example of the kind of constant
work factor pattern in general that we
see what he'll checks whether it's those
route 53 he'll checks or our health
checks towards your instances where
instead of a system where when things go
wrong we suddenly start making a bunch
of API calls and generating a bunch of
changes you know that may or may not
succeed in the heat of an event we have
systems that just do the same amount of
work all the time whether things are
healthy or on and healthy the as I said
you need to register different subnets a
subnet per zone in order for us to be
able to balance them this all comes with
one slight challenge though which is
because we're doing simple dns loud
bouncing in front of you'll be at the
availability zone level we're using
round robin load balancing effectively
there you can see imbalances in load
between the availability zones so here
for example we've got three availability
zones and the green ones getting more
traffic than the other two the reason
for that is there may be very few DNS
servers that are actually being queried
and so one is sticky and one gets more
goes to the green availability zone this
is because sorry this is generally not
because DNS details are being honored
it's generally just because there
sometimes like mobile networks in
particular to just may only be three
painters in play we do have a workaround
for this I'm not gonna go to it in
detail included on the slide in case
you're interested in it you can grab it
later but essentially uses wild cards
and see names and it's a crazy
embarrassing hack but does work to
essentially boost caches on mobile
resolvers if you really really need to
with a few people doing this on mobile
apps but while we generally recommend
here is just enable cross on load
balancing right so if you enable cross
hold up so not bouncing then our lb in
availability zone d here for example can
actually route two instances in the
other availability zone and so the load
converges right we cross on loud
bouncing enabled we see a more even
spread requests between the availability
zone which is uh which is which is
pretty neat we we effectively end up
absorbing that imbalance that comes out
because of dns kashi which is pretty
neat and then the very last thing i
wanted to cover is something we're
seeing more and more off which is just
elb devops so today we're already
tightly integrated with cloud formation
and ops works if you use the elastic
Beanstalk you can get a lbs that way
you'll be using us to container service
or API gateway or even third party tools
like Netflix is a scared and so on
there's a lot of automation and systems
built around spinning up and managing
your bees we're seeing a lot of people
do Bluegreen deployments using lb as
their gateway as their latch mechanism
of how to switch and lastly because all
of this can be done programmatically
with with Clare trail logs and so on and
roll back we're seeing more people
create whole stacks with a new Yale be
at the top and their new flips and
that's something we're building tighter
and tighter support for making sure that
al bees are provisioned ever more
quickly to support those work clothes
and that's the final section that's
scalable
so thank you all for coming hopefully
you've learned some things about how la
balancing works and some things that can
be applied in your workloads